#The linked list data structure
Arrays (or lists) are probably the most common data structure used to store a collection of elements. As we mentioned before in this book, each language has its own implementation of arrays. This data structure is very convenient and provides a handy [] syntax to access its elements. However, this data structure has a disadvantage: the size of the array is fixed (in most languages) and inserting or removing items from the beginning or from the middle of the array is expensive, because the elements need to be shifted over (even though we learned that JavaScript has methods from the array class that will do that for us, this is what happens behind the scenes as well).

Linked lists store a sequential collection of elements; but unlike arrays, in linked lists, the elements are not placed contiguously in memory. Each element consists of a node that stores the element itself and also a reference (also known as a pointer or link) that points to the next element. The following diagram exemplifies the structure of a linked list:

###The linked list data structure
One of the *benefits of a linked list* over a conventional array is that we _do not need to shift elements over when adding or removing them_. However, we need to use ((pointers** when working with a linked list and, because of it, we need to pay some extra attention when implementing a linked list. Another detail in the array is that we can directly access any element at any position; with the linked list, if we want to access an element from the middle, we need to start from the beginning (head) and iterate the list until we find the desired element.

We have some real-world examples that can be exemplified as a linked list. The first example is a _conga line_. Each person is an element, and the hands would be the pointer that links to the next person in the conga line. You can add people to the line—you just need to find the spot where you want to add this person, decouple the connection, then insert the new person and make the connection again.

Another example would be a _scavenger hunt_. You have a clue, and this clue is the pointer to the place where you can find the next clue. With this link, you go to the next place and get another clue that will lead to the next one. The only way to get a clue from the middle of the list is to follow the list from the beginning (from the first clue).

We have another example—which might be the most popular one used to exemplify linked lists—that of a _train_. A train consists of a series of vehicles (also known as wagons). Each vehicle or wagon is linked to each other. You can easily decouple a wagon, change its place, or add or remove it. The following figure demonstrates a train. Each wagon is an element of the list and the link between the wagons is the pointer:
